---
published: false
---

Welcome to the second volume of the Electric Vehicles Strategy newsletter, the focus this week is on the death of diesels, due to the recent ruling in Germany paving the way for cities to ban older diesel vehicles.

:hammer: [German Court Hands Down A Death Sentence For Diesel:](http://www.bbc.com/news/business-43211946) The door has been opened to ban diesels in German cities and could be the start of a wider European movement. "The Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig said the cities of Stuttgart and Duesseldorf could legally ban older, more polluting diesel cars from zones worst affected by pollution”. The ban if enforced widely will have a huge impact as only 2.7m of the 15m diesels on German roads meet the highest Euro-6 standard.

:warning: [German cars have the most to lose from a changing auto industry:](https://www.economist.com/news/business/21737534-coddled-successive-governments-industry-dogged-dieselgate-lagging-electric) German cars have the most to lose from a changing auto industry: A great article from the Economist laying out the challenging path ahead for German automakers as they are forced to transition away from Diesel. The automakers face the challenge of pivoting their core competencies if they make a real push towards EVs and will need to heavily re-skill their workforce,"426,000 jobs among the main carmakers, plus another 130,000 jobs among suppliers, depend directly on making parts for ICE vehicles”. However, the Economist goes further and questions if their brand proposition is even relevant in an electrified world, as motors become electric, standardised, and somewhat self driving, the branding of “The Ultimate Driving Machine” may require a rethink.

:chart_with_upwards_trend: [Diesels are dirty, NOx Emissions Still 400% Higher Than Lab Figures:](https://cleantechnica.com/2018/03/13/volkswagen-diesel-cars-use-14-fuel-software-fix-nox-emissions-still-400-higher-lab-figures-study-shows/) Real world testing by the Australian Automobile Association (AAA) confirmed that after the recall and fix for VW vehicles they are using 14% more fuel, and emit 400% higher NOx emissions than the official lab figures. "In other words, the “fix” instituted by Volkswagen to reduce emissions to legal levels essentially undid the supposed fuel-economy superiority of its diesel cars, as compared to gas/petrol cars."

:heavy_exclamation_mark: [Diesels and their pollutants cause up to 78k premature deaths in Europe per year:](https://www.eea.europa.eu//publications/air-quality-in-europe-2017) A strong reminder from the European Environment Agency of the damage done from the large penetration of Diesel vehicles in Europe, somewhat due to the diesel gate emissions testing scandal. "The proportion of NO2 (i.e. the NO2/NOx ratio) in vehicle exhaust is considerably higher in diesel vehicles than in petrol”.

